Salesforce Connector link fixes - DOCS-6185 (#502)
mulesoft/docs-connectors: modules/ROOT/pages/salesforce/salesforce-connector-97.adoc

endif::[]
:imagesdir: ../../assets/images/

Support Category: https://www.mulesoft.com/legal/versioning-back-support-policy#anypoint-connectors[Select]

Salesforce Connector v9.7

Anypoint Connector for Salesforce (Salesforce Connector) enables you to create applications that react to Salesforce events such as adding, changing, or deleting objects, topics, documents, and channels.

> The Salesforce Connector lets you connect to the Salesforce APIs. This connector exposes methods for accessing Salesforce, including working with the https://developer.salesforce.com/docs/atlas.en-us.apexcode.meta/apexcode/apex_dev_process_chapter.htm[Salesforce Apex classes]. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The connector enables you to connect to Salesforce APIs. It exposes methods for accessing Salesforce, including working with the https://developer.salesforce.com/docs/atlas.en-us.apexcode.meta/apexcode/apex_dev_process_chapter.htm[Salesforce Apex classes]. 
```

This connector works with the Salesforce SOAP API, REST API, Bulk API, and Streaming API, depending on the operation you configure. Each API call uses an XML request and response over an HTTPS connection. All required request headers, error handling, and HTTPS connection configurations are built into the connector.

Release Notes: xref:release-notes::connector/salesforce-connector-release-notes-mule-4.adoc[Salesforce Connector Release Notes]

== About Connectors

Anypoint connectors are Mule runtime engine (Mule) extensions that enable you to connect to APIs and resources on external systems, such as Salesforce, ServiceNow, and Twitter.

== Prerequisites

> Before creating an app, you must have access to the Salesforce target resource and Anypoint Platform. You must also understand how to create a Mule app using Design Center or Anypoint Studio.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before creating an app, you must have access to the Salesforce target resource and Anypoint Platform. You must also understand how to create a Mule app using Anypoint Design Center or Anypoint Studio.
```

> This document assumes that you are familiar with Salesforce, HTTP, SOAP, REST, Bulk and Streaming APIs, Mule, Anypoint Connectors, Anypoint Studio (Studio), Mule concepts, elements in a Mule flow, and Global Elements.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before using the connector, you must be familiar with Salesforce, HTTP, SOAP, REST, Bulk and Streaming APIs, Mule runtime engine, Anypoint Connectors, Anypoint Studio, Mule concepts, elements in a Mule flow, and Global Elements.
```

> * Consumer key and Secret (available in your Salesforce developer account) - Required if you are using the OAuth API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* If you are using the OAuth API, a consumer key and secret (available in your Salesforce developer account)
```

> * Namespace and schema location: If you plan to create the XML for your Mule application, you need to include the correct namespace and schema location in your XML file. Anypoint Studio adds this information to the XML file automatically when you add the Salesforce connector to a flow in a Mule app.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* If you plan to create the XML for your Mule application, a namespace and schema location
Anypoint Studio adds this information to the XML file automatically when you add the Salesforce connector to a flow in a Mule app.
```

[[apis]]
== APIs for the Salesforce Connector

The Salesforce Connector works with the Salesforce SOAP API, REST API, Bulk API, and Streaming API, but does not provide access to the Chatter API or the Tooling API. Each API call uses an XML request and response over an HTTPS connection. All required request headers, error handling, and HTTPS connection configurations are built into the connector.

* Apex SOAP API
+
The Salesforce https://developer.salesforce.com/docs/atlas.en-us.apexcode.meta/apexcode/apex_api.htm?search_text=soap[Apex SOAP API] exposes Apex class methods as custom SOAP web service calls. This allows an external application to invoke an Apex web service to perform an action in Salesforce.
+
* Apex REST API
+
The Salesforce https://developer.salesforce.com/docs/atlas.en-us.apexcode.meta/apexcode/apex_rest.htm[Apex REST API] creates your own REST-based web services using Apex. This API has all of the advantages of the REST architecture, while adding the ability to define custom logic and including automatic argument or object mapping.
+
* Bulk API
+

> The Salesforce https://developer.salesforce.com/docs/atlas.en-us.api_asynch.meta/api_asynch/asynch_api_intro.htm[Bulk API] quickly and securely loads batches of your organization's data into Salesforce. See also: xref:salesforce/salesforce-connector-config-topics.adoc#batchdata[Load Data in Batches].

Reviewer: No colon
```suggestion
The Salesforce https://developer.salesforce.com/docs/atlas.en-us.api_asynch.meta/api_asynch/asynch_api_intro.htm[Bulk API] quickly and securely loads batches of your organization's data into Salesforce. See also xref:salesforce/salesforce-connector-config-topics.adoc#batchdata[Load Data in Batches].
```

+
* Metadata API
+
The Salesforce https://developer.salesforce.com/docs/atlas.en-us.api_meta.meta/api_meta/meta_intro.htm[Metadata API] manages customizations and build tools that work with the metadata model, not the data itself.
+
* SOAP API
+

> The Salesforce https://developer.salesforce.com/docs/atlas.en-us.api.meta/api/sforce_api_quickstart_intro.htm[SOAP API] provides secure access to your organization's information on Salesforce. Most of the operations that the Salesforce Connector performs map to this API.

Reviewer: GLOBALLY do not use "the" in front of connector names unless they are followed by a common noun.
```suggestion
The Salesforce https://developer.salesforce.com/docs/atlas.en-us.api.meta/api/sforce_api_quickstart_intro.htm[SOAP API] provides secure access to your organization's information on Salesforce. Most of the operations that the connector performs map to this API.
```
OR
```suggestion
The Salesforce https://developer.salesforce.com/docs/atlas.en-us.api.meta/api/sforce_api_quickstart_intro.htm[SOAP API] provides secure access to your organization's information on Salesforce. Most of the operations that Salesforce Connector performs map to this API.
```

+

> All the Salesforce operations performed through the SOAP API have an optional parameter called `Headers` that can take any of the  https://developer.salesforce.com/docs/atlas.en-us.api.meta/api/soap_headers.htm[Salesforce SOAP Headers].

Reviewer: Omit extra space
```suggestion
All the Salesforce operations performed through the SOAP API have an optional parameter called `Headers` that can take any of the https://developer.salesforce.com/docs/atlas.en-us.api.meta/api/soap_headers.htm[Salesforce SOAP headers].
```
